Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we are going to learn how to make our title tag have a dynamic value.
So as of right now, no matter which page we go to within our application, the title you can see the
area that I'm selecting in the top left corner, this remains the same.
Now, ideally, for search engine optimization reasons, we would want this to update depending on the
page.
So, for example, if I click on to the Catnip is Delicious post, we'd probably want this title of
Catnip is delicious to appear somewhere in the title.
So our first step towards making the title dynamic would be to find this title tag within our HTML template.
So let me show you where we can find that within your text editor.
Jump into the views folder and then look within the includes subfolder.
We want to open up header SJS around line number seven.
We should see the title tag.
So at the moment it has a hardcoded value of our app.
Now, since this one file powers the header for every single page in our application, you might be
wondering how we can have this use a dynamic value.
Well, let me show you what I would do.
So let's take an individual post screen as our first example.
So imagine when you're viewing a post.
The title should be the post title and then maybe a dash or a pipe and then our app.
Let me show you how I would set that up.
So within your controllers folder, I want you to jump into post controller J.S. I want you to find
the function that is named View Single.
So that line of code begins with exports.
Dot view single.
Well, when we are rendering the template.
So response don't render a single post screen in addition to just giving it a property of post, let's
just give it another property of title.
So right after post column post I would add a comma and then say title colon and then I would just give
it a value of post title.
OK, let's go ahead and save this and then let's jump back into our header file.
So around line number seven, let's get rid of the hardcoded our app value and within the two title
tags, let's drop into SJS to do something dynamic.
So I have an equal sign here because I want to output something.
And then I would just do this, let's say type of parentheses.
Let's give that a value of title.
And I'm just checking to see if the title property has been set or not.
Right, because we wouldn't want this to blow up or throw an error message on a screen or controller
route where we have not defined a title property.
So let's do this.
Let's use a ternary operator.
So our condition will be if type of title.
Double equals, sign the check for equality and let's say quotes undefined.
So if this evaluates to true right.
If this is a controller or route that does not have a title property, then we can say questionmark
within a ternary operator to say what we want to do.
If this is true for now, let's just have a placeholder X, then we can have a Colen and another placeholder
X, this secondary placeholder will run if this evaluates to false.
So if there is no title property, right, if title is undefined, then instead of this first placeholder
X, I would just have quotes and say our app as a fallback.
But if there is a title property being passed into this template instead of the X placeholder, I would
just have backed X so I can do something dynamic in between the two back dicks.
I would say dollar sign curly brackets and say title and then maybe right after those curly brackets
you could have a dash or a pipe.
It doesn't matter.
It's up to you, just some sort of visual separation.
And then I would also have the name of our application.
OK, so altogether this is what that line of code looks like.
It's just the title tag.
And then if you want to pause the video to type this out, that's OK.
At this point, though, I'm going to save.
And now back on the front end of the website if I refresh.
Cool, you can see for this individual post screen or you URL, the title bar is now Catnip is delicious
and then a vertical pipe and then our app.
But if I go to any other screen, so if I go back to the homepage or if I go to my profile, notice,
the title is simply our app.
So at this point it's up to you.
You're free to go into any controller and provide a title property when you are rendering a template.
Practice makes perfect, so I'll walk through this with you for one more example, let's assume that
on the main profile screen we would want the title to say profile for and then the username.
Right.
And then our heterozygous would add the vertical pipe and then our app.
So let me show you how I would set that up within our controllers folder.
Let's go into our user controller.
Let's find the function that is named profile posts screen.
For me, it's around line number 96, right, exports, profile posts, screen, and when we render
this template, I would just give it an additional property named title.
So title Colan, be sure to include a comma and then before the comma for the value, I would just have
to back ticks and in between the back takes, I would say profile for and then I would want to do something
dynamic's a dollar sign curly brackets and then to pull in the profile username.
I would just say this.
So request profile user dot username.
Cool, so this will get passed into the template, which will ultimately run our heterozygous file and
it will know what to do.
So let's go ahead and save this.
And then if I refresh the profile for Brad.
You can see up in the title bar profile for Brad Vertical Pipe.
Our app, you get the idea you're free to go through and add custom titles for any template that you're
rendering.
And that's actually going to bring this lesson to a close in our next lesson.
If I sign out really quick, we are going to add live validation to our registration form.
So, for example, when a new user tries to sign up on the fly, we will let them know if that user
name has already been taken or not.
The same thing with the email.
We will let them know if that's already been used and we will check our other validation rules as well.
So if they type in a user name that has too many characters or not enough characters, we will let them
know what the little red error message in real time.
This way we check for errors before they even ever submit the form to the server.
This should greatly enhance our user experience.
So let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.